MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: THERE WAS A TALE OF
TWO UKRAINES TODAY.
IN THE CAPITOL, PARLIAMENT
CHEERED A NEW PRIME MINISTER,
WHILE IN THE KEY CRIMEA REGION,
GUNMAN SEIZED GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS AND RAISED THE RUSSIAN
FLAG.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE SHOCKING
CONDITIONS FOR PALESTINIAN
REFUGEES IN SYRIA.
THIS U.N. PHOTO CAPTURES THE
DESPERATE LINES FOR FOOD AT A
CAMP IN DAMASCUS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, A PRESIDENTIAL
CALL TO ACTION TO HELP YOUNG MEN
OF COLOR BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO
REALIZE THEIR POTENTIAL.
>> WITHOUT HOPE WE HAVE
NOTHING.
YOU HAVE GOAL ITS, YOU HAVE
THAT HOPE TO GET YOU THERE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE'S
PARLIAMENT VOTED IN A NEW
GOVERNMENT TODAY AND IT
IMMEDIATELY FACED A CHALLENGE
FROM THE COUNTRY'S CRIMEA
REGION.
PRO-RUSSIAN GUNMEN SEIZED
OFFICIAL BUILDINGS THERE, AS
RUSSIAN MILITARY JETS PATROLLED
ALONG THE BORDER.
IT RAISED CONCERNS AT A NATO
MEETING IN BRUSSELS, WHERE U.S.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
SAID HE'S KEEPING A CLOSE WATCH
ON RUSSIAN ACTIONS.
>> LET'S KEEP THE TENSIONS DOWN.
LET'S SEE NO PROVOCATIVE ACTIONS
BY ANYONE, ANY MILITARY.
THESE ARE DIFFICULT TIMES, WE
ALL UNDERSTAND THAT, BUT THIS IS
A TIME FOR VERY COOL, WISE
LEADERSHIP.
ON THE RUSSIAN SIDE, ON
EVERYBODY'S SIDE
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID HE SPOKE WITH RUSSIA'S
FOREIGN MINISTER, WHO PROMISED
TO RESPECT UKRAINE'S
SOVEREIGNTY.
MEANWHILE, RUSSIAN NEWS ACCOUNTS
SAID OUSTED UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
VIKTOR YANUKOVICH IS SHELTERING
AT A KREMLIN RETREAT NEAR
MOSCOW.
THERE'S WORD HE PLANS A NEWS
CONFERENCE TOMORROW.
WE'LL GET MORE ON THE DEVELOPING
SITUATION, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
BOMB BLASTS SHOOK BAGHDAD AND
OTHER PARTS OF IRAQ TODAY,
KILLING AT LEAST 52 PEOPLE.
MOST OF THE DEATHS CAME IN A
MOTORCYCLE BOMBING THAT STRUCK A
SHI-ITE MARKET.
OTHER ATTACKS HIT BOTH SHI-ITE
AND SUNNI SECTIONS OF THE CITY.
A WAVE OF VIOLENCE BEGAN LAST
APRIL,ND H AAS CONTINUED DESPITE
GOVERNMENT PLEDGES TO RESTORE
SECURITY.
IN NORTHEASTERN NIGERIA,
ISLAMIST FIGHTERS STRUCK AGAIN
TODAY, KILLING AT LEAST 33
PEOPLE.
SURVIVORS SAID GUNMEN WITH BOKO
HARAM STAGED AN ALL-NIGHT ATTACK
ON A TOWN AND SEVERAL VILLAGES
AFTER SOLDIERS RAN AWAY FROM
MILITARY CHECKPOINTS.
ON TUESDAY, THE MILITANTS
MURDERED ALMOST 60 STUDENTS AT A
GOVERNMENT SCHOOL IN A
NEIGHBORING STATE.
GAY RIGHTS ACTIVISTS CHEERED
TODAY AFTER ARIZONA GOVERNOR JAN
BREWER VETOED A BILL LETTING
BUSINESSES REFUSE SERVICE TO
GAYS ON RELIGIOUS GROUNDS.
THE REPUBLICAN'S CLOSELY WATCHED
DECISION CAME LAST NIGHT.
SHE REJECTED ARGUMENTS BY BILL
SUPPORTERS WHO CITED RELIGIOUS
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN OTHER
STATES.
>> SENATE BILL 1062 DOES NOT
ADDRESS A SPECIFIC CONCERN
RELATED TO RELIGIOUS LIBERTY
IN ARIZONA.
I HAVE NOT HEARD ONE EXAMPLE
IN ARIZONA WHERE A BUSINESS
OWNER'S RELIGIOUS LIBERTY
HAS BEEN VIOLATED.
THE BILL IS BROADLY WORDED,
AND COULD RESULT IN
UNINTENDED AND NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Woodruff: SIMILAR LEGISLATION
IS PENDING IN AT LEAST SIX OTHER
STATES.
ALSO TODAY, A FEDERAL JUDGE IN
LOUISVILLE ORDERED KENTUCKY
OFFICIALS TO BEGIN IMMEDIATELY
RECOGNIZING SAME-SEX MARRIAGES
FROM OTHER STATES AND COUNTRIES.
THE NETHERLANDS IS THE LATEST
COUNTRY TO SUSPEND AID TO UGANDA
OVER A NEW ANTI-GAY LAW THERE.
IT IMPOSES SENTENCES OF UP TO
LIFE IN PRISON FOR THOSE WHO
ENGAGE IN HOMOSEXUAL RELATIONS.
NORWAY AND DENMARK HAVE ALREADY
HALTED MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
ASSISTANCE IN UGANDA.
THE U.S. HAS WARNED IT TOO, MAY
CUT AID.
DEMOCRATS IN THE U.S. SENATE
FELL SHORT TODAY IN A BID TO
ADVANCE A $21 BILLION VETERANS
BENEFITS PACKAGE.
THE MEASURE WOULD EXPAND HEALTH
CARE, EDUCATION AND JOB-
TRAINING.
REPUBLICANS BLOCKED THE BILL IN
PART OVER ITS COST.
THEY ALSO WANTED TO ADD
NEW SANCTIONS ON IRAN OVER ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
FOOD NUTRITION LABELS MAY BE
GETTING A NEW, EASIER-TO-READ
LOOK.
CALORIES AND SUGAR CONTENT WILL
STAND OUT MORE, AND SERVING
SIZES WILL BE UPDATED TO BRING
THEM MORE IN LINE WITH THE
PORTIONS PEOPLE ACTUALLY EAT.
FIRST LADY MICHELLE OBAMA ROLLED
OUT THE PROPOSAL TODAY AT THE
WHITE HOUSE.
>> FAMILIES DESERVE MORE AND
BETTER INFORMATION ABOUT THE
FOOD THEY EAT.
AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT NO MATTER WHAT THE
FINAL VERSION LOOKS LIKE,
THE NEW LABEL WILL ALLOW YOU
TO IMMEDIATELY SPOT THE
CALORIE COUNT BECAUSE IT
WILL BE IN LARGE FONT AND
NOT BURIED IN THE FINE
PRINT.
>> Woodruff: THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATIONILL  WTAKE
COMMENTS ON THE PROPOSAL FOR 90
DAYS.
A FINAL RULE COULD TAKE ANOTHER
YEAR.
WE'LL LOOK MORE CLOSELY AT THE
PROPOSED CHANGES LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER WAS TAKEN TO A WASHINGTON
HOSPITAL FOR A TIME TODAY.
AN AIDE SAID HE FELT FAINT AND
HAD TROUBLE BREATHING DURING A
MORNING STAFF MEETING.
HE WAS DISCHARGED AFTER SEVERAL
HOURS AND SENT HOME.
HOLDER IS 63 YEARS OLD.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE NEW CHAIR
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
ACKNOWLEDGED A SPATE OF WEAK
REPORTS COULD MEAN SLOWER
GROWTH.
JANET YELLEN TOLD A SENATE
COMMITTEE THAT CONSUMER SPENDING
AND JOB GROWTH HAVE BEEN LOWER
THAN EXPECTED.
BUT SHE SAID THE SEVERE WINTER
COULD BE THE MAIN CAUSE.
>> PART OF THAT SOFTNESS MAY
REFLECT ADVERSE WEATHER
CONDITIONS.
BUT AT THIS POINT IT'S
DIFFICULT TO DISCERN EXACTLY
HOW MUCH.
IN THE WEEKS AND MONTHS
AHEAD, MY COLLEAGUES AND I
WILL BE ATTEMPTING TO IT
SIGNALS THAT INDICATES
WHETHER THE RECOVERY IS
PROGRESSING IN LINE WITH OUR
EARLIER EXPECTATIONS.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET RALLIED
AFTER YELLEN'S TESTIMONY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 74 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,272.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 26
POINTS TO CLOSE UNDER 4,319.
AND THE S&P 500 FINISHED THE DAY
WITH A RECORD HIGH, UP NINE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 1,854.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
A NEW PRIME MINISTER TAKES THE
HELM OF A DIVIDED UKRAINE, DIRE
STRAITS FOR PALESTINIAN REFUGEES
IN SYRIA, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PUSH
TO HELP YOUNG MEN OF COLOR
STRIVE FOR SUCCESS, A MAKEOVER
FOR NUTRITION LABELS ON FOOD
PACKAGES, HOW AMERICAN AND
BRITISH INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
SPIED ON WEBCAMS, PLUS, THE
OSCAR-NOMINATED DOCUMENTARY "THE
ACT OF KILLING".
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, A CRISIS
IS UNFOLDING IN THE EASTERN
PROVINCE OF CRIMEA.
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
SIMFEROPOL, THE CAPITAL OF THE
PRO-RUSSIAN REGION.
POLICE WERE ON GOURD OUTSIDE
THE REGIONAL PARLIAMENT THIS
MORNING.
THE ENTRANCE BARRICADED BY
OLD FURNITURE AND PALLETS.
THE RUSSIAN FLAG FLYING
ALONGSIDE THE CRIMEA ON TOP.
AND INSIDE THE BUILDING,
SOME 60 ARMED MEN.
>> NOBODY KNOWS WHAT'S GOING
ON INSIDE NOW.
WE ARE JUST SAW THE BUILDING
BEING TAKEN OVER.
30 FULLY ARMED GUYS RUBIN
SIDE.
THEY KICKED OUT THE POLICE.
THEN MORE BUSES CAME AND
ABOUT 30 MORE GUYS ARRIVED.
THEY HAD BAGS FULL OF RPGs,
SNIPER RIFLES, HANDGUNS,
THESE GUYS WERE FULLY ARMED.
>> THE CROWD WAS ALL IN
FAVOR.
THEY SAID THEY DIDN'T KNOW
EXACTLY WHO WOULD OCCUPY THE
BUILDING BUT THEY ALL WANTED
THE SAME THING.
A REFERENDUM ON WHERE THE
CRIMEA SHOULD REMAIN PART OF
UKRAINE OR AS THEY ALL WANT,
JOIN RUSSIA.
>> IN KEY EVE
PARLIAMENTARIANS RESPONDED
ANGRILY, IT'S A CHALLENGE TO
THE NEW GOVERNMENT'S
CONTROL.
>> ANYONE WHO TRIES TO, AND
I STRESS ANYONE, TO TAKE
OVER THE GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IN UKRAINE'S EAST,
WEST, CENTER, SOUTH AND
NORTH IS GOING TO BE TREATED
AS HAVING COMMITTED A CRIME
AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF
UKRAINE.
>> SO WHAT ARE THEY GOING TO
DO ABOUT IT?
>> THE PEOPLE OCCUPYING THE
CRIMEAN PARLIAMENT ARE ARMED
AND OUTSIDE INCLUDING THE
POLICE ARE SYMPATHETIC.
SO IT'S HARD TO SEE HOW THE
AUTHORITIES IN KIEV CAN
FORCE A SIEGE.
THEY WILL HAVE TO NEGOTIATE.
AND THAT GIVES NOT JUST TO
THE MILITANT RUSSIAN CRIMEAN
BUT TO THE ONLY MAN THEY
RESPECT, PRESIDENT PUTIN.
>> THIS MORNING RUSSIAN
ARMOURED VEHICLES HEADED
TOWARDS-- PRESIDENT PUTIN
MAY BE INSURANCING THAT
EVERY ONE REMEMBERS THAT THE
RUSSIAN MILITARY HAS BASES
HERE.
THEY TURNED AROUND AT THE
UKRAINIAN POLICE CHECK POINT.
GROUA P OF MEN WERE BUILDING
A CAMP OUTSIDE THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE RIOT
POLICE.
THEY WANT TO PROTECT THEM
FROM THE NEW AUTHORITIES.
TWO COURSES HAVE BECOME
ENTWINED.
THESE MEN LOVE RUSSIA AND
THEY SEE-- ACCUSED OF MURDERING
PROTESTORS IF KIEV AS THEIR
HEROES.
A SMALL GROUP OF PRO RUSSIA
PRO-- PROTESTORS MARCHED
THROUGH THE STREETS YELLING
THEIR MESSAGE THAT THEY
DON'T ACCEPT THE AUTHORITY
OF KIEV AND ITS EUROPEAN
UNION BACKERS.
PEOPLE MILLED AROUND AS
DEPUTIES INSIDE THE OCCUPIED
PARLIAMENT WAITED IN FAVOR
OF THE REFERENDUM ON WHETHER
THE CRIMEA SHOULD JOIN
RUSSIA.
KIEV WOULD CAN CLAIRE THE
VOTE ILLEGAL BUT ARE NOT
SURE HOW THEY'RE GOING STOP
IT.
>> Woodruff: THE STATE
DEPARTMENT RELEASED ITS ANNUAL
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT TODAY AND
CONCLUDED THAT LAST SUMMER'S
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ATTACK IN
SYRIA-- WHICH KILLED MORE THAN
1,400 PEOPLE-- WAS THE WORST
HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATION OF 2013.
WHILE THERE HAVE BEEN NO NEW
REPORTS OF CHEMICAL ATTACKS, THE
CIVIL WAR RAGES ON AND THE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS CONTINUES TO
ESCALATE.
TONIGHT WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
THOSE BARELY SURVIVING AMIDST
THE CONFLICT.
IT'S A SCENE OF UTTER
HERE IN THE YARMOUK CAMP,
THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIAN
REFUGEES ARE CAUGHT IN THE
CROSSFIRE OF CIVIL WAR, IN A
COUNTRY THAT IS NOT THEIR OWN.
>> ( translated ): BY GOD, WE
ARE DYING FROM HUNGER.
WE CAN'T TAKE THIS ANYMORE.
>> Woodruff: YARMOUK WAS FIRST
ESTABLISHED IN 1957, NEAR THE
CENTER OF DAMASCUS.
ONCE, 160,000 PALESTINIANS LIVED
THERE.
NOW, 18,000 ARE LEFT.
THEY'VE BEEN UNDER SIEGE BY THE
SYRIAN ARMY SINCE JULY, AFTER
SOME PALESTINIAN FACTIONS TURNED
AGAINST THE ASSAD REGIME.
SINCE THEN, THE U.N. SAYS MORE
THAN 100 RESIDENTS HAVE DIED OF
STARVATION AND RELATED
ILLNESSES.
THIS WEEK, AID WORKERS
NEGOTIATED THEIR WAY INTO THE
CAMP AND WERE MET WITH A SWARM
OF DESPERATE PEOPLE.
U.N. FOOTAGE SHOWED AN ELDERLY
WOMAN WHO CAME OUT TO RECEIVE
AID.
THE WORKERS ASK IF SHE IS
PALESTINIAN OR SYRIAN.
"I'M PALESTINIAN," SHE LAMENTS,
FILIPPO GRANDI IS HEAD OF THE
U.N's PALESTINIAN REFUGEE
AGENCY.
HE VISITED YARMOUK ON TUESDAY,
AND SAID LATER THE PEOPLE LOOKED
LIKE GHOSTS.
>> THESE ARE PEOPLE THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN OUT OF THERE, THAT HAVE
BEEN TRAPPED IN A SITUATION NOT
ONLY WITHOUT FOOD, MEDICINES,
CLEAN WATER-- ALL THE BASICS--
BUT ALSO PROBABLY COMPLETELY
SUBJECTED TO FEAR BECAUSE THERE
WAS FIERCE FIGHTING, NOISY
FIGHTING GOING ALL ALONG.
>> Woodruff: AND, AS THE
FIGHTING RAGES ON, AN EVER-
GROWING NUMBER OF SYRIANS HAVE
BEEN FORCED TO LEAVE THEIR
HOMES.
NEARLY SEVEN MILLION ARE
DISPLACED WITHIN THEIR OWN
COUNTRY.
ANOTHER 2.5 MILLION HAVE SOUGHT
REFUGE IN SURROUNDING STATES.
LEBANON HAS THE LARGEST
CONTINGENT, AT MORE THAN
900,000.
JORDAN AND TURKEY NOW HOST
ROUGHLY 600,000 SYRIAN REFUGEES
EACH.
AND MORE THAN 200,000 SYRIANS
ARE LIVING IN IRAQ.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, SENATOR TIM
KAINE OF VIRGINIA HIGHLIGHTED
THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS,
INSISTING THAT RUSSIA PUT
PRESSURE ON ASSAD.
>> NONE OF THIS IS AN ACCIDENT.
THE ASSAD REGIME IS USING FORCED
STARVATION AND FORCED SIEGES AS
A WEAPON TO DESTROY THE SYRIAN
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: FOR NOW, U.N.
STAFFERS CONTINUE TO WORK
THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT, REBEL AND
PALESTINIAN FACTIONS WITHIN THE
YARMOUK CAMP WITH THE AIM OF
DELIVERING MORE AID WHILE IT CAN
STILL DO SOME GOOD.
WE TURN NOW TO TWO WHO HAVE
FOCUSED ON THE HUMANITARIAN
CRISIS CAUSED BY THE SYRIAN
CIVIL WAR.
NANCY LINDBORG IS ASSISTANT
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE U.S. AGENCY
FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN
CHARGE OF CONFLICT AND
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
AND MICHAEL GERSON IS A
"WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST AND
FORMER SPEECH WRITER FOR
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH.
WE WELCOME YOU TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
NANCY LINDBORG, WE SEE THESE
TERRIBLE PICTURES, ALMOST
IMPOSSIBLE TO BELIEVE.
HOW DID IT GET LIKE THIS?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN
STEADILY ET CETERA CA LATING
PARTICULARLY IN THE LAST
YEAR.
WE'VE SEEN THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED RISE BY THREE
TIMES IN THE LAST YEAR.
AND THE PEOPLE WHO YOU SAW
ARE PART OF 12 CITIES THAT
ARE LITERALLY BESEIGED,
250,000 PEOPLE, MANY OF WHOM
HAVEN'T RECEIVED AID FOR
MONTHS AND MONTHS.
AND THEY'RE EATING CATS AND
DOGS.
>> Woodruff: AND SO IS IT AS
BAD, WE SAW PICTURES IN ONE
PLACE INSIDE SYRIA.
IS IT THAT BAD IN OTHER
REFUGEE ENCAMPMENTS SM.
>> I THINK IT'S HARD TO
IMAGINE THE DEPTH OF
DIFFICULTY PEOPLE ARE FACING
INSIDE SYRIA RIGHT NOW.
IN ALEPPO THEY ARE DROPPING
BARREL BOMBS.
KNEES ARE BOMBS THAT ARE
CONSTRUCTED FROM BOLTS AND
REBAR AND SPECIFICALLY
DESIGNED TO HORRIFICLY
INJURE PEOPLE SO WHAT WE ARE
SEEING IS THE UNFOLDING TO
THE JUST OF A HUMANITARIAN
CRISIS BUT A SERIOUS HUMAN
RIGHTS CRISIS WHERE PEOPLE
ARE BEING SYSTEMICALLY
DENIED FOOD AND TARGETED.
>> Woodruff: SO MICHAEL GER
SON, THERE IS A-- GERSON
THERE IS A CRISIS FOR THOSE
INSIDE SYRIA, TERRIBLE.
YOU WERE AT A SYRIAN REFUGEE
CAMP IN JORDAN.
WHAT DID YOU SEE THERE?
>> WELL, I WAS WITH THE
HOLOCAUST MUSEUM EXAMINING
ISSUES OVER THERE.
AND WE WERE AT THE BORDER
CROSSING SEEING THE PEOPLE
COMING RIGHT
ACROSS-THE-BOARD FRERE
SIRRIA.
AND IT IS EXACTLY WHAT YOU
ARE STRIKE.
THEIR STORIES RIGHTON T HE
BORDER, VERY MUCH EITHER THE
BESEIGED AREAS OF SYRIA, THE
GOVERNMENT SURROUNDING AREAS,
DEPOPULATING THEM, ATTACKING
THEM, USING BARREL BOMBS,
USING HUNGER AS A TOOL.
THIS IS NOT A CASE WHERE THE
NEWS OF THE INNOCENT
BYSTANDERS OR THE BYPRODUCT
OF A CIVIL WAR.
THIS IS A CASE WHERE ONE
SIDE IN THAT CIVIL WAR IS
USING AYA TACKS ON CIVILIANS,
MASS ATROCITIES AS A TOOL OF
WAR, AS A STRATEGY OF WAR.
THE TESTIMONY THAT WE HEARD
FROM PERSON AFTER PERSON,
FROM HOMES IN ALEPPO, THE
SUBURBS OF DOM AS CUSS, 40
SOME AREAS RIGHT NOW IN THE
ESTIMATES THAT ARE BESEIGED
AND WHERE CIVILIANS ARE
BEING ATTACKED.
>> TELL US SOME OF THE
STORIES THAT YOU HEARD.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I WAS
SURROUNDED AT THE CAMP BY A
BUNCH OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
VERY ANXIOUS TO TELL THEIR
STORIES.
BUT THERE WAS ONE MAN THAT
HUNG BACK AND TALKED ABOUT
HOW HE HAD BEEN A PROTESTOR.
AND HAD HIS HOUSE TARGETED
BY A TANK, A REGIME TANK.
LOST A FOUR-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER, A SIX-YEAR-OLD SON,
A 15-YEAR-OLD SON LOST A
LEG.
AND ALL HE SAID, I ASKED,
YOU KNOW, I WAS IN TEARS
WHEN HE WAS TELLING THIS,
ALL HE SAID AT THE END WAS I
JUST WANTED SOMEONE TO
KNOW-- THIS WAS A CASE WHERE
PART OF THE PROBLEM IS, IS A
FAILURE OF SYMPATHY.
I TALKED WITH A LOT OF THE
GREAT AID GROUPS OVER THERE
THAT ARE NOT GETTING MUCH
DONOR MONEY RIGHT NOW, FOR
THE SYRIAN CRISIS.
ONE TOLD ME THAT THEY HAD
RAISED IN THREE MONTHS FOR
THE PHILIPPINES, WHERE IT
HAD TAKEN THREE YEARS TO
RAISE IN THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT.
PEOPLE ARE NOT VERY ENGAGED
IN THIS.
>> NANCY LINDBORG, HOW MUCH
IS GETTING IN AND WHO IS
SENDING IT IN, WHERE IS IT
COMING FROM.
REMIND US WHERE THIS MONEY
IS COMING FROM.
>> THE UNITED STATES IS THE
SINGLE LARGEST DONOR.
WE HAVE GIVEN ABOUT $1.7
BILLION OF HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANCE SINCE THE CRISIS
BEGAN.
AND WE'RE WORKING WITH U.N.
AGENCIES, INTERNATIONAL NGOs,
LOCAL SYRIAN GROUPS.
THE COURAGE OF THE
HUMANITARIAN WORKERS WHO
EVERY DAY ARE RISKING THEIR
LIVES TO DELIVER ASSISTANCE
IS REALLY REMARKABLE.
JUST ONE OF OUR PARTNERS HAS
LOST 42 OF ITS STAFF MEMBERS
SINCE THE CONFLICT BEGAN.
SO THE AID IS COMING IN
THROUGH ALL DIFFERENT WAYS,
REACHING PEOPLE THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY.
BUT IT'S DIFFICULT TO
ESCALATE THE ASSISTANCE AS
FAST AS THE NEEDS ARE
RISING.
>> SO I WAS GOING TO SAY,
THERE'S AID GOING IN.
BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE TO
THE GETTING AID.
>> THE UNITED STATES ALONE
IS FEEDING 2 MILLION PEOPLE
A DAY.
WE SPORT THE WORLD FOOD
PROGRAM OR THE LARGEST
DONOR.
THEY FED LAST MONTH MORE
THAN $4 MILLION.
BUT THE NEEDS ARE SO MUCH
GREATER.
IT'S AS IF THE
OF NEW JERSEY NEEDS FOOD AND
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE EVERY
DAY.
>> WHAT ELSE, WHAT NEEDS TO
HAPPEN.
WHO NEEDS TO STEP UP HERE,
MICHAEL GERSON, I WANT TO
ASK YOU TOO.
WHO NEEDS TO STEP UP AND
WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE.
>> I WANT TO CONFIRM, ON THE
HUMANITARIAN SIDE T IS
DOING.
WHAT THE JORDANIAN
GOVERNMENT IS DOING.
THEY HAVE TAKEN IN 600,000
PEOPLE IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS
POOR WATER RESOURCES AND YOU
KNOW, IS NOT A VERY WEALTHY
COUNTRY THEMSELVES.
THE PROBLEM IS THERE MAY BE
500,000 MOBILE REFUGEES
RIGHT ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE BORDER IN SOUTHERN SYRIA
THAT COULD OVERWHELM A
COUNTRY LIKE JORDAN.
THE DIFFICULTY IS HOW DO YOU
CHANGE THE SITUATION ON THE
GROUND WITHIN SYRIA.
AND I THINK THE
ADMINISTRATION IS NOW
RE-EXAMINING SOME OF ITS
METHODS TO TRY TO DO THAT.
THE QUESTION --
>> YOU MEAN EFFECT THE
CONFLICT ITSELF.
>> AFFECT THE SECURITY
SITUATION THAT'S PRODUCING
THIS PROBLEM IN THE
LONG-TERM.
BUT A LOT OF THE
HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS
ARE NOW BEGIN TOING TO PLAN
FOR FIVE YEARS, TEN YEARS
OUT THIS IS TO THE GOING TO
BE SOLVED IN ANY SHORT
AMOUNT OF TIME.
>> HOW DO YOU SEE IT, WHAT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN IN THE SHORT
RUN AND THE LONGER RUN.
>> WELL, IMMEDIATELY, WE
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY OF THE
UN SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION THAT WAS PASSED
ON SATURDAY.
IT'S THE FIRST TIMES THERE'S
BEEN A UNANIMOUS AGREEMENT
AMONG THE MEMBERS OF THE
SECURITY COUNCIL THAT THE
BARREL BOMBING MUST STOP.
THERE MUST BE FULL,
UNFETTERED HUMANITARIAN
ACCESS, THAT IF THIS IS NOT
COMPLIED WITH, THAT THE
SECURITY COUNCIL WILL
EXAMINE AND TAKE FURTHER
ACTION.
>> IS THAT HAVING AN EFFECT?
>> IT JUST PASSED ON
SATURDAY SO WE'LL BE CLOSING
WATCHING AND PUSHING THE
SECRETARY BAN KI-MOON WILL
BE MAKING A REPORT WITHIN A
MONTH.
THERE HAS TO BE ACTION,
EVERY DAY SYRIANS ARE DYING.
EVERY DAY CHILDREN ARE
SUFFERING.
AND JUST TO NOTE TO
MICHAEL'S POINT ABOUT PEOPLE
HAVE BECOME ALMOST NUMB
BECAUSE OF THE COMPLEXITY
AND ENORMITY OF THIS CRISIS,
THE CHILDREN IN PARTICULAR
HAVE BEEN SUFFERING.
>> IS THERE SOMETHING PEOPLE
WATCHING CAN DO WITHOUT WANT
TO HELP?
>> I SUGGEST THEY GO TO
CHAMPIONS FOR THE CHILDREN
OF SYRIA .ORG WHERE THERE
ARE DIFFERENT CALLS TO
ACTION TO HELP PEOPLE GET
ENGAGED.
TO HELP PEOPLE PARTNERSHIP
IN A GLOBAL CALL, BOTH FOR
ACTION AS WELL AS TO LET THE
SYRIAN PEOPLE KNOW THAT
THEIR STORIES ARE BEING
HEARD.
>> NANCY LINDBORG WITH USAID,
MICHAEL GERSON, WE THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: LEADERS FROM THE
CORPORATE, PHILANTHROPIC, ARTS,
FAITH AND SPORTS WORLDS GATHERED
AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY TO
ADDRESS A SINGLE ISSUE: THE
CHALLENGES FACING YOUNG MEN AND
BOYS OF COLOR.
THE ISSUE HAS BECOME A KEY
PRIORITY FOR THE PRESIDENT.
>> THE BOTTOM LINE IS, MICHELLE
AND I WANT EVERY CHILD TO HAVE
THE SAME CHANCE THIS COUNTRY
GAVE US.
>> Ifill: WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA
UTTERED THESE WORDS DURING HIS
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS, THIS
IS WHO HE HAD IN MIND.
CHRISTIAN CHAMPAGNE IS AN 18
YEAR-OLD SENIOR AT HYDE PARK
CAREER ACADEMY ON CHICAGO'S
SOUTH SIDE.
HE PLANS TO GO TO COLLEGE AND
HOPES TO BECOME A LAWYER.
BUT, AS A YOUNG BLACK MAN, HE
FACES CHALLENGES STEEPER THAN
MOST.
HIGH INCARCERATION RATES, LOW
HIGH SCHOOL COMPLETION AND
UNEMPLOYMENT DRAMATICALLY HIGHER
THAN THE REST OF THE POPULATION.
BUT CHRISTIAN AND THE OTHER
YOUNG MEN LIKE HIM WHO TRAVELED
TO THE WHITE HOUSE THIS WEEK,
HOPE TO BUCK THAT TREND.RE ALL M
CALLED BECOMING A MAN OR BAM.
>> BAM WAS NEEDED BECAUSE IT
HELPS YOUNG BLACK MEN TO BECOME
GREAT AND GETS GOALS IN LIFE.
IT WAS MORE THAN NEEDED IN MY
OPINION AND IT SHOULD BE
WORLDWIDE.
>> Ifill: BAM IS ONE OF DOZENS
OF PROGRAMS NATIONWIDE THAT WILL
BE PART OF MY BROTHER'S KEEPER,
AN INITIATIVE FOCUSED ON YOUNG
MEN OF COLOR ANNOUNCED TODAY AT
THE WHITE HOUSE.
28 FOUNDATION EXECUTIVES ARE
PLEDGING $200 MILLION TO SUPPORT
LITERACY, SCHOOL ANDRIMI CNAL
JUSTICE REFORM AND JOBS PROGRAMS
TO HELP YOUNG MEN LIKE
CHRISTIAN.
>> I'D PROBABLY BE STILL A
LITTLE LESS ME TO SAY I DON'T
REALLY EXPRESS MY FEELINGS THAT
MUCH.
SO I'D BE BLANK AS A PAGE.
BUT NOW I TALK TO PEOPLE AND
HAVE CONVERSATIONS WITH
EVERYONE.
WITHOUT HOPE YOU HAVE NOTHING.
I MEAN YOU HAVE GOALS, BUT
YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE THAT HOPE TO
GET YOU THERE.
>> Ifill: MR. OBAMA SAYS MY
BROTHER'S KEEPER WILL BE PART OF
HIS PRESIDENTIAL LEGACY.
>> THIS IS AN ISSUE OF NATIONAL
IMPORTANCE.
IT'S AS IMPORTANT AS ANY ISSUE
THAT I WORK ON.
IT'S AN ISSUE THAT GOES TO THE
VERY HEART OF WHY I RAN FOR
PRESIDENT.
BECAUSE IF AMERICA STANDS FOR
ANYTHING, IT STANDS FOR THE IDEA
OF OPPORTUNITY FOR EVERYBODY.
>> IF YOU WORK HARD, IF YOU
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY THEN YOU
CAN MAKE IT IN THIS COUNTRY.
(APPLAUSE)
>> THE ANNOUNCE
>> Ifill: THE ANNOUNCEMENT COMES
WELL INTO THE PRESIDENT'S SECOND
TERM, AND ALMOST EXACTLY TWO
YEARS AFTER GEORGE ZIMMERMAN
KILLED FLORIDA TEEN TRAYVON
MARTIN IN AN INCIDENT THAT
TRANSFIXED THE NATION AND THE
PRESIDENT WHO SPOKE AFTER
ZIMMERMAN WAS ACQUITTED OF THE
CRIME.
>> YOU KNOW, WHEN TRAYVON MARTIN
WAS FIRST SHOT I SAID THAT THIS
COULD HAVE BEEN MY SON.
ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING THAT IS
TRAYVON MARTIN COULD HAVE BEEN
ME 35 YEARS AGO.
>> Ifill: EVEN BEFORE THE MARTIN
INCIDENT VERDICT, THE PRESIDENT
HAD CONNECTED WITH BAM, WHICH
PROVIDES COUNSELING, MENTORING
AND VIOLENCE PREVENTION TO MORE
THAN 1,400 STUDENTS IN 36
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
THIS WEEK'S WHITE HOUSE TRIP IS
NOW THEIR SECOND VISIT TO THE
HOME OF THE WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS
BLACK MAN.
>> I EXPLAINED TO THEM WHEN I
WAS THEIR AGE, I DIDN'T HAVE A
DAD IN THE HOUSE.
I MADE BAD CHOICES, I GOT HIGH
AND DIDN'T THINK OF THE HARM IT
COULD DO, DIDN'T TAKE SCHOOL
>> I PAID EXCUSE, SOMETIMES
I SOLD MYSELF SHORT.
AND I REMEMBER WHEN I WAS
SAYING N YOU MAY REMEMBER
THIS, EVER A I WAS FINISHED
THE GUY SITTING FIX TO ME
SAID ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
YOU?
(LAUGHTER)
>> AS PART
>> Ifill: AS PART OF THE NEW
INITIATIVE, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WILL ALSO
EVALUATE EXISTING GOVERNMENT
PROGRAMS.
BUT MUCH OF THE EFFORT WILL
FOCUS ON COMMUNITY EFFORTS LIKE
BAM.
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO'S
CRIME LAB FOUND THAT A YEAR IN
THE BAM PROGRAM INCREASES
GRADUATION RATES BY 10% TO 23%,
AND HAS CUT VIOLENT CRIME
ARRESTS BY 44%.
>> IT'S MORE ECONOMICALLY
INCENTIVIZING TO FUND PROGRAMS
LIKE THIS TO PREVENT CRIME AND A
LOT OF THE SOCIAL ILLS AND TO
LOCK PEOPLE UP, INCARCERATE THEM
AND REALLY TRY TO GIVE PEOPLE A
SHOT BEFORE THINGS GET BAD.
SO I THINK WHEN THE GUYS HAVE A
>> Ifill: 19-YEAR-OLD KERRON
TURNER IS INTERESTED IN A CAREER
IN MORTUARY SCIENCES OR
ARCHEOLOGY.
BAM, HE SAYS, HELPED HIM DEAL
WITH DEPRESSION.
>> IT'S LIKE WHERE KIDS GET OFF
THEIR MIND AND THINGS THAT
THEY'RE GOING UG
THEY RELEASE IT AND I GUESS THEY
FEEL BETTER FROM IT OR AT LEAST
IT WORKS FOR ME SO FAR.
>> Ifill: THE GOAL: TO MAKE IT
WORK FOR MANY MORE A LOT MORE
YOUNG MEN, IN A LOT MORE PLACES.
EACH OF THE FOUNDATIONS THAT
SIGNED ON TODAY GET TO DECIDE
WHICH PROJECTS WILL BENEFIT FROM
THE NEW PROGRAM.
BUT, AS THE PRESIDENT SAID
TODAY, THERE ARE BROADER
UNDERLYING QUESTIONS.
YESTERDAY, I DISCUSSED SOME OF
THEM WITH GAIL CHRISTOPHER, VICE
PRESIDENT FOR PROGRAMS AT THE
W.K. KELLOGG FOUNDATION AND
EDDIE GLAUDE, A PROFESSOR OF
RELIGION AND AFRICAN AMERICAN
STUDIES AT PRINCETON UNIVERSITY.
WELCOME, GAIL
CHRISTOPHER AND EDDIE
GLAUCHLTED I WANT TO START
WHICH GAIL CHRISTOPHER,
BECAUSE THE KELLOGG
FOUNDATION HAS A LOT OF
MONEY INVESTED IN THIS
PROJECT.
WHY IS IT ESSENTIAL WHAT IS
IMPORTANT ABOUT IT?
>> WHEN WE LOOK AT THE
DISPARITIES THAT OUR YOUNG
MEN OF COLOR FACE IN TERMS
OF OPPORTUNITY AND ACCESS TO
WELL FORITY IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE FUTURE OF THE NATION.
YOUNG PEOPLE OF COLOR MAKE
UP ABOUT 23% OF THE
POPULATION BETWEEN AGES 10
AND 17.
YET THEY MAKE UP OVER 50% OF
THOSE WHO ARE INCARCERATED
IN THE JUVENILE AND
SOMETIMES CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
THEY ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY
SUSPENDED AND EXPELLED FROM
SCHOOL.
THE DATA IS CLEAR THAT THERE
ARE UNDERLYING FACTORS THAT
ARE LIMITED OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THIS POPULATION GROUP.
AND THESE UNDERLYING FACTORS
NEED TO BE ADDRESSED.
>> WHY ARE THE SOLUTIONS IN
THE HANDS OF THE PRIVATE
SECTER?
>> THEY REALLY AREN'T.
THE SOLUTIONS ARE ALSO IN
THE PUBLIC SECTOR.
BUT THEY AREN'T REALLY
FOCUSED IN A SPECIFIC WAY
AROUND THIS POPULATION.
THEY ARE WORK PROGRAMS,
THERE ARE EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAMS.
THERE ARE ALL SORTS OF
THINGS, THERE ARE HEALTH
PROGRAMS.
BUT THEY REALLY HAVEN'T BEEN
EXAMINED THOROUGHLY ENOUGH
AND FOCUSED IN ON THE NEEDS
OF THIS POPULATION PROFESSOR
F AGREE THAT THIS IS A
SERIOUS PROBLEM THAT NEEDS
ADDRESSING, WHOSE
RESPONSIBILITY IS IT TO
ADDRESS IT?
>> I THINK THAT'S THE
PERFECT QUESTION TO ASK.
WE DO KNOW THAT THERE IS A
CRISIS ENGULFING YOUNG
PEOPLE, YOUNG PEOPLE OF
COLOR IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND I THINK IT'S THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF AMERICANS
AND I THINK IT'S A
RESPONSIBILITY OF
GOVERNMENT.
PART OF I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THE INITIATIVE BUT I'M
SKEPTICAL.
I'M THINKING, I'M SKEPTICAL
ABOUT IT IN THE SENSE THAT
IT SEEMS TO HAVE BOUGHT INTO
A PARTICULAR FRAME THAT KIND
OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS ARE THE ANSWERS
TO PUBLIC PROBLEMS.
AND IT REFLECTS, I THINK,
SISTER, IT REFLECTS I THINK
A TROUBLESOME NOTION OF
GOVERNMENT THAT WE HAVE TO
DISPLACE AND DISPEL.
I THINK WE ACTUALLY NEED
SOMETHING MORE ROBUST ON THE
PUBLIC SIDE TO RESPOND TO
THE CRISIS.
AND I'M NOT SO CONVINCED
THAT THE PRIVATE SECTOR, AND
IN PARTNERSHIP ABOUT THE
PUBLIC SECTOR CAN ADDRESS
THE CRISIS AT ALL OF ITS
LEVELS, IF YOU UNDERSTAND
WHAT I MEAN.
>> LET ME ASK GAIL
CHRISTOPHER ABOUT THAT.
BECAUSE YOU HAD A REPORT
THAT CAME OUT IN 2006 WHICH
REACHES THOSE CONCLUSION
THEN.
WHAT IS DIFFERENT ABOUT WHAT
IS BEING PROPOSED NOW?
>> I THINK IS UNPRECEDENTED
THAT WE HAVE THE BULLY
PULPIT OF THE HIGHEST OFFICE
IN THE LAND, THAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES IS DRAWING ATTENTION
TO THE SCOPE AND THE SCALE
AND THE NATURE OF THE ISSUE,
AND THAT'S IMPORTANT.
WHEN YOU HAVE LIVED LONG
ENOUGH AND WORKED IN THESE
ISSUES OF SOCIAL JUSTICE YOU
KNOW THAT IT TAKES A LOT OF
TIME, SOMETIMES IT TAKES
DECADES TO BRING ATTENTION
TO AND REALLY MOBILE SIZE
AND SOLVE A PROBLEM SO WE
RECOGNIZE THAT IT'S BEEN A
LONG TIME COMING AND THAT
COMMUNITIES HAVE BEEN
WORKING HARD ON THE GROUND,
BUT TWO OFF THEN ISOLATION,
WITHOUT THE SUPPORT OF THE
BROADER COMMUNITY, THE
PHILANTHROPIC, PRIVATE AND
PUBLIC SECTOR THIS IS REALLY
AN ALL HANDS ON DECK MOMENT
FOR US ACE NATION.
>> I HAVE TO ASK THIS, DO
YOU THINK SHE MENTIONED THE
FACT OF HAVING THE BULLY
PULL PET AT THE WHITE HOUSE
IS IT SIGNIFICANT IN ANY WAY
THAT A BLACK PRESIDENT WOULD
BE THE ONE HEADING UP THIS
INITIATIVE AND DOES IT MAKE
A DIFFERENCE?
IS THERE ENOUGH?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S
SIGNIFICANT ON ITS FACE.
I HOPE IT WILL PLAY ITSELF
OUT IN A SUBSTANTIVE WAY BUT
LET'S BE VERY CLEAR.
WE CAN TALK ABOUT PUBLIC
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND
BEING AT THE HEART OF THE
HOUSING CRISIS.
WE CAN THINK ABOUT THE 1968
HUD ACT.
AND PART OF WHAT THAT ACT
INVOLVED WAS PUBLIC PRIVATE
RELATIONSHIPS DESIGNED TO
INCREASE HOME OWNERSHIP
AMONG BLACK FOLK, BLACK
AMERICANS.
WHAT WAS THE RESULT?
THE CREATION OF AN EMERGING
MARKET WITH PREDATORY
LENDING LIKE BEHAVIORS IN
PRACTICES THAT LEAD TO
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF LOSS
WITHIN BLACK COMMUNITIES IN
THE 1970s, PREDATING THE
HOUSING CRISIS OF 2008.
SO PART OF WHAT I'M
SUGGESTING HERE IS THAT WE
BELIEVE IN THIS COUNTRY THAT
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
CAN BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
MAINTAINING THE PUBLIC GOOD.
SECURITYING THE PUBLIC GOOD.
BUT WE SEE WHAT PUBLIC
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS ARE
DWOING REGARDS TO PUBLIC
EDUCATION AND I THINK WE
NEED TO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
CRISIS THAT HAS EVERYTHING
TO DO WITH UNEMPLOYMENT,
THAT HAS EVERYTHING TO DO
WITH THE FAILURE OF THE
EDUCATION SYSTEM THAT HAS
EVERYTHING TO DO WITH
STRUCTURAL SYSTEM I BELIEVE
RACISM IN TERMS OF THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
REQUIRES A ROBUST, RESPONSE
FROM THE GOVERNMENT.
BUT WE ARE LIVING IN TIMES,
WE'VE LIVED OVER A FEW
DECADES AND I DON'T WANT TO
TAKE TOO MUCH TIME HERE BUT
FOR THE LAST FEW DECADES WE
HAVE LIVED IN A MOMENT WHERE
THE CONCEPTION OF GOVERNMENT
PLAYING AN ACTIVE ROLE IN
INSURANCING THE PUBLIC GOOD
HAS BEEN UNDER A RELENTLESS
ASSAULT.
AND PART OF WHAT I HOPED
WITH THIS INITIATIVE BUT IT
WAS A HOPE AGAINST HOPE TO
INVOKE THEOYS B S THAT WE
WOULD SOMEHOW BREAK OUT OF
THE FRAME.
BUT INSTEAD, THE FRAME HAS
LIMITED THE SCOPE AND IN
SOME WAYS LIMITED OUR
IMAGINATION.
>> LET ME ASK GAIL
CHRISTOPHER, ARE YOU MORE
OPTIMISTIC THAN THAT?
AND I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
ONE PARTICULAR PIECE OF THAT
FIRST BUT ARE YOU MORE
OPTIMISTIC.
>> I AM MORE OPTIMISTIC BUT
IT'S BECAUSE THE WK KELLOGG
FOUNDATION IS NOT IN DENIAL
ABOUT THE ISSUES OF RACISM
IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND WE'VE BEEN WORKING OVER
THE LAST FIVE YEARS,
ACTUALLY THE LAST 20 YEARS
ON THE ISSUES OF MEN AND
BOYS OF COLOR.
BUT VERY SPECIFICALLY WE
LEARNED AFTER TRYING THE
SERVICE MODEL AND THE POLICY
MODEL AND THE PHILANTHROPIC
MODEL THAT WE WON'T MAKE
PROGRESS UNTIL WE DEAL WITH
THE UNDERLYING ISSUES OF
RACISM AND STRUCTURAL RACISM,
AND ACTUALLY LEAD THE NATION
IN AN EFFORT TO HEEL THE
LEGACY, THE PERCEPTION OF A
DIFFERENCE IN VALUE OF HUMAN
BEINGS.
>> LET ME ASK YOU BOTH ABOUT
RACISM, ABOUT ONE SPECIFIC
PIECE OF THIS.
WHICH IS RECIDIVISM.
WE HEAR ABOUT THE CRADLE TO
PRISON PIPELINE BLUE IT
TURNS OUT SOMETIMES IT
BECOMES THE PRISON BACK TO
THE STREETS BACK TO THE
PRISON PIPELINE AS WELL.
WHAT IN THIS INITIATIVE
STARTING ABOUT YOU, GAIL,
WOULD ACTUALLY ADDRESS THIS
IN THE LASTING WAY?
>> COMMUNITIES HAVE TO BE
ABLE TO EMBRACE THE YOUNG
MEN THAT RETURN TO THE
COMMUNITIES.
THEY HAVE TO BE ABLE TO BE
EMPLOYED.
THAT'S ONE WAY TO BREAK THE
CYCLE OF RECIDIVISM.
EVEN ACCESS TO PROPER
MEDICAL CARE, INCLUDING
MENTAL HEALTH CARE.
THERE ARE MODELS ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY WHERE THEY HAVE
BEEFED UP THE SERVICES
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY.
AND THEY HAVE PROVIDED
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE AND
MENTAL HEALTH CARE IN
PARTICULAR, WHICH HELPED TO
BREAK THE CYCLE, AND REDUCE
RECIDIVISM DRAMATICALLY SO
THERE ARE WAYS TO DO THIS.
AND I COULDN'T AGREE MORE
THAT IT IS A PUBLIC
RESPONSIBILITY AS WELL AS A
PRIVATE RESPONSIBILITY.
>> PROFESSOR GLAUDE, HOW DO
YOU MEASURE IMPROVEMENT ON
THINGS LIKE THIS?
>> OH, WELL, WE CAN MEASURE
IT BY JUST LOOKING AT THE
DATA, RIGHT.
WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS LOOK
AT THE NUMBER OF YOUNG MEN
OF COLOR RETURNING TO
PRISON, LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
OF YOUNG BOYS OF COLOR WHO
FIND THEMSELVES CAUGHT UP IN
THE JUVENILE SYSTEM.
WE CAN MEASURE IT BY WAY OF
LOOKING AT GRADUATION RATES,
ADMISSION RATES TO HIGHER
EDUCATION.
WE HAVE THE STANDARDS OF
JUDGEMENT, OF VALUED IN
MEASURES TO SEE WHETHER OR
NOT THIS PROJECT WILL WORK.
THIS INITIATIVE WILL WORK.
BUT I WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR.
WE'RE RETURNING OUR KIDS TO
OPPORTUNITY.
WHERE SOCIAL NETWORKS HAVE
BROKEN DOWN, THE SOCIAL
SERVICE DELIVERY
INSTITUTIONS HAVE FAILED,
WHERE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ARE
BEING CLOSED.
-- WORK HAS SIMPLY
DISAPPEARED SO PART OF WHAT
THIS INVOLVES, I MEAN IN
SOME WAYS, AND I WOULD LIKE
TO SAY, AND I SAY THIS NOT
TO SUGGEST THAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS DOING TOO LITTLE
TOO LATE.
I DON'T WANT TO GET INVOLVED
IN THAT KIND OF I A DEBATE
BUT IN EFFECT WHAT WE ARE DO
SOMETHING PUTTING A BAND-AID
ON A GUNSHOT WOUND.
AND I GUESS BAND-AIDS ARE
OKAY.
BUT WHAT WE NEED IS A MORE
ROBUST DISCUSSION, A MORE
ROBUST POLICY INITIATIVE TO
ADDRESS THE CRISIS THAT IS
ENGULFING, I KNOW
PARTICULARLY BLACK
COMMUNITIES, AND BLACK MEN,
RIGHT.
AND SO PART OF WHAT I DON'T
WANT IS A KIND OF MARKET
DRIVEN SOLUTION TO A
LONG-STANDING SOCIAL AND
MORAL PROBLEM THAT HAS
DEFINED THE NATION FOR
GENERATIONS.
>> PROFESSOR EDDIE GLAUDE AT
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY AND
GAIL CHRISTOPHER AT THE
KELLOGG FOUNDATION, THIS IS
THE FIRST OF MANY
CONVERSATIONS.
>> I HOPE SO, THANK YOU.
>> I HOPE SO, THANK YOU SO
MUCH
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN TWO DECADES, THE GOVERNMENT'S
MAKING SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO
THE NUTRITION LABELS ON THE FOOD
AND DRINKS YOU BUY AT THE STORE.
JEFFREY BROWN SORTS THROUGH THE
DETAILS AND WHAT THE CHANGES ARE
DESIGNED TO DO.
>> .
>> Brown: AS MICHELLE OBAMA
SAID TODAY UNLESS YOU HAVE A
THESAURUS, MICROSCOPE,
CALCULATOR OR A DEGREE IN
NUTRITION YOU WERE OUT OF
LUCK SO THE NEW LABELS PUT
FORWARD BY THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION AIM TO REDUCE
CONFUSION ABOUT CALORIES,
SERVING SIZES AND MORE.
WE GET AN EXPLANATION FROM
WILLIAM DIETZ FORMER
DIRECTOR FROM THE CDC
DIVISION OF NUTRITION AND
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.
WELCOME TO YOU.
I WANT TO START WITH SOME
PROPS THAT WE HAVE TO HELP
US, A 12 OUNCE BOTTLE OF
SODA THAT USED TO BE THOUGHT
OF AS A SINGLE SERVING, AND
A 20 OUNCE BOT SELL NOWADAYS
PERHAPS AT THE LOWER END OF
WHAT PEOPLE ACTUALLY CONSUME
IN A SERVING.
HOW DO THE NEW LABELS DEAL
WITH THIS GROWTH IN SERVING
SIZES.
>> WELL, THE NUTRITION FACTS
PANEL WAS ORIGINALLY
DEVELOPED ABOUT 20 TO 30
YEARS AGO.
AT A TIME WHEN SERVINGS WERE
MUCH SMALLER THAN THEY ARE
TODAY.
AND THE 12 OUNCE TO THE 20
OUNCE SODA IS A GOOD
ILLUSTRATION.
ANOTHER GOOD ILLUSTRATION IS
THAT ICE CREAM USED TO BE A
SERVING WAS HALF A CUP AND
TODAY IT'S A CUP SO ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT CHANGES
IN THE NUTRITION FACTS PANEL
IS AN UDATIPNG OF PORK SIZE.
>> ALL RIGHT SO, NOW I WANT
TO SHOW A PROPOSED NEW LABEL
SO WE CAN SEE ANOTHER WAY
THAT THESE NEW LABELS WOULD
HELP.
THIS EMPHASIZES CALORIES AND
THE NUMBER OF SERVINGS ARE
GIVEN MUCH MORE PROMINENCE
HERE THIS IS TO OVERCOME
SOME OF THE CONFUSION.
>> WELL, TWOFOLD, YES.
PART OF IT IS TO OVERCOME
CONFUSION, PART OF IT IS TO
HIGHLIGHT THE ROLE OF
CALORIES.
THE ISSUE IN THE UNITED
STATES TODAY SO
BUYS-- OBESITY AND THAT IS
CAUSED BY EXCESS CALORIES SO
HIGHLIGHTING THE CALORIC
CONTENT OF THE PRODUCT IS AN
IMPORTANT STEP TOWARDS
TRYING TO CONTROL OBESITY.
>> THERE'S ALSO IN THIS NEW
PROPOSED LABEL AT LEAST,
SOMETHING NEW.
IT'S A SEPARATE LINE FOR
SUGARS THAT ARE ADDED.
EXPLAIN WHAT THAT MEANS AND
WHY IT'S IMPORTANT.
>> WELL, THE LAST TWO
DIETARY GUIDELINES UNDER TWO
DIFFERENT ADMINISTRATIONS,
2005 AND 2010 CALLED FOR A
REDUCTION IN THE INTAKE OF
ADDED SUGARS BY AMERICANS.
BUT THE PRIOR LABELS DID NOT
HAVE ADDED SUGARS ON THEM.
FURTHERMORE, WE KNOW THAT
SUGARS ARE AN IMPORTANT
CONTRIBUTOR TO OBESITY.
SO HIGH LIINGT ADDED SUGARS
GIVES AMERICANS AN
ADDITIONAL PIECE OF
INFORMATION ON HOW TO BEGIN
THEIR WEIGHT.
>> IN COUNTRYING-- THINKING
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT ALL OF
THIS IS, HOW MUCH IS KNOWN
ABOUT THE DEGREE TO WHICH
PEOPLE ACTUALLY READ THESE
LABELS AND ARE GUIDED BY
THEM?
>> WELL, MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THAT ABOUT A THIRD MUCH
PEOPLE READ THOSE NUTRITION
FACTS PANELS TODAY.
BUT OUR HOPE IS THAT THIS
WILL GET INCREASED USE.
AND AS THE PANEL BECOMES
MORE HELPFUL, TO HELPING
AMERICANS MAKE GOOD
DECISIONS ABOUT THEIR
NUTRITION, THAT IF WILL
RECEIVE INCREASING USE.
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY NOT BE
ALL AND END ALL.
PEOPLE MAKE DECISIONS FOR
ALL SORTS OF REASONS AND
NUTRITIONAL CONTENT IS ONLY
ONE OF THOSE REASONS.
>> ALSO STILL ON THE TABLE
BUT I GATHER DELAYED SO FAR,
ARE CHANGES TO LABELS ON
MENUS, IN RESTAURANTS, AND
FAST FOOD STORES, SO THAT OF
COURSE IS ANOTHER COMPONENT
OF ALL OF THIS.
>> RIGHT.
AND IN MY VIEW THAT'S A MUCH
MORE COMPLICATED BUSINESS.
BECAUSE RESTAURANTS, THE WAY
THEY PREPARE THEIR PORTIONS
AND THEIR FOOD IS GOING TO
BE VERY HARD TO FIND A
NUTRITION FACTS PANEL TOO.
BUT CERTAINLY MOST PEOPLE
GET THEIR CALORIES FROM
THOSE PRODUCTS THAT THEY BUY
IN THE GROCERY STORES.
AND THOSE PRODUCTS ARE GOING
HAVE THE NUTRITION FACTS
PANEL WHICH WILL ENABLE A
MORE EDUCATED JUDGEMENT
ABOUT THAT PURCHASE.
>> AND FINALLY, THE FOOD
INDUSTRY AND EVERYONE
ACTUALLY GETS TO WEIGH IN
FOR, BEFORE ALL OF THIS IS
SET.
WOULD YOU EXPECT CHANGES OR
DELAYS TO THESE PROPOSED NEW
LABELS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT OF
CONTROVERSY ABOUT THIS.
THE GROCERY MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION HAD KIND OF A
NONCOMMITTAL STATEMENT THIS
MORNING ABOUT THEIR RESPONSE
TO THESE PANELS.
BUT I THINK THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR BOTH THE
INDUSTRY AND THE PUBLIC,
MOST IMPORTANTLY THE PUBLIC,
TO RESPOND TO THESE CHANGES.
AND LET THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT KNOW HOW THEY
FEEL ABOUT IT AND WHETHER
THEY THINK THIS IS GOING TO
BE HELPFUL.
>> Brown: WILLIAM DIETZ,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE VERY WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: A BRITISH NEWS
OUTLET REPORTED TODAY THAT THE
GOVERNMENTS OF THE U.S. AND
UNITED KINGDOM HAVE BEEN
LITERALLY PEERING INTO THE LIVES
OF AMERICANS AND BRITONS.
A COVERT PROGRAM CODE NAMED
OPTIC NERVE APPARENTLY USED
COMPUTER WEBCAMS TO WATCH ONLINE
USERS.
"THE GUARDIAN" NEWSPAPER BASED
ALL THIS ON DOCUMENTS PROVIDED
BY FORMER N.S.A EMPLOYEE EDWARD
SNOWDEN.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE REPORT
DETAILS HOW A BRITISH SPY AGENCY
COLLECTED IMAGES FROM YAHOO!
WEBCAM CHATS, WITH HELP FROM THE
N.S.A.
THE IMAGES AND ASSOCIATED META-
DATA WERE STORED AND SUBJECT TO
SEARCH USING EXPERIMENTAL FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE.
ACCORDING TO THE DOCUMENTS, IN
ONE SIX-MONTH PERIOD, THE
PROGRAM COLLECTED IMAGES OF
NEARLY TWO MILLION YAHOO! USERS
WORLDWIDE, INCLUDING A NUMBER OF
SEXUALLY EXPLICIT
COMMUNICATIONS.
THE OPTIC NERVE PROGRAM DID NOT
DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN ACTUAL
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS AND
INNOCENT WEB-CHATTERS.
JOINING ME TO WALK US THROUGH
WHAT THEY DISCOVERED IS
"GUARDIAN" REPORTER SPENCER
AKERMAN.
SPENCER, HOW DOES THIS
PROGRAM WORK?
>> SO WHAT HAPPENED WAS, IS
AS PART OF ITS VERY BROAD
ABILITIES TO COLLECT DATA
ACROSS THE INTERNET GCHQ
COLLECTED A LOT OF
INFORMATION FROM USERS OF
THIS SPECIFIC WEB CAM
SERVICE BASED OUT OF YAHOO!,
MESSENGER.
AND FROM THERE IT WENT INTO
DATABASES THAT ANALYST KOS
USE TO COMB THROUGH BOTH THE
IMAGERY AND ASSOCIATED DATA
AROUND WHERE THOSE IMAGES
CAME FROM TO BOTH FIND
TARGETS THAT IT ALREADY HAD
IN ITS INTELLIGENCE
GATHERING PURPOSES AND
FIGURE OUT NEW TARGETS.
>> SO YOU ARE SAYING THAT
ITS HE NOT JUST THE TARGETED
FOLKS THAT GOT SWEPT UP IN
THIS NET.
WHAT ABOUT AMERICANS WHO
WERE USING YAHOO! WEB CHAT
BETWEEN 2008 AND 2010,
SHOULD THEY BE CONDITIONED
THERE ARE IMAGES OF THEM
STORED AT THE NHA OR GCHQ
NOW?
>> IT'S A MAJOR QUESTION.
BECAUSE GCHQ LIKE THE NSA
DOES MOTT HAVE THE ABILITY
ON THE FRONT END OF ITS BULK
COLLECTION PROGRAMS TO
FILTER OUT DATA COMING FROM
THE U.S. AND COMING FROM THE
U.K.
WE DIDN'T GET DIRECT ANSWERS
AS TO HOW MANY AMERICANS IF
ANY HAVE BEEN COLLECTED.
BUT THE RULES THAT GCHQ IS
UNDER ON THE SEARCH END,
WHEN BE ALYCES CAN LOOK
THROUGH THIS DATABASE
DISTINGUISH PEERLY BETWEEN
PEOPLE BELIEVE TO BE IN THE
U.K. AND PEOPLE NOT BELIEVE
TO BE IN THE U.K. SO
AMERICANS IMAGERY DATA THAT
HAS BEEN CAUGHT NEWSPAPER
THIS COULD IN FACT BE
SEARCHED BY GCHQ.
THE MOST PARTNER OF THE NHS
FROM SURVEILLANCE PURPOSES.
>> SO WHAT DID THEY DO WITH
ALL THE PURPOSES WHAT IS THE
FACIAL RECOGNITION ELEMENT.
>> THE FACIAL RECOGNITION
ELEMENT IS FASCINATING
BECAUSE IT'S AN EMERGING
TECHNOLOGY THAT EVEN THE
DOCUMENTS CAN SEE JUST
REALLY ISN'T PRECISELY
MATURE YET.
THE IDEA WOULD BE FROM AN
INTELLIGENCE PERSPECTIVE F
YOU HAD A PARTIAL IDENTIFIER,
MAYBE AN E-MAIL ADDRESS OR
PART OF A SCREEN NAME OF AN
INTELLIGENCE TARGET BUT
DIDN'T REALLY HAVE MUCH MORE
THAN THAT, POTENTIALLY IF
YOU SWEPT UP ALL OF THIS
YAHOO! WEB CAM DATA YOU
MIGHT BE ABLE TO FIND THE
IMAGE OF SOMEONE'S FACE OR
SOMEONE'S BODY TYPE AND THAT
COULD BE USED AS PART OF A
WAY OF TARGETING THIS PERSON,
FINDING OUT MORE ABOUT THIS
PERSON AND IF NECESSARY
APPREHENDING THAT PERSON.
>> IS THERE ANYTHING IN THE
DOCUMENT THAT SAYS THIS
PROGRAM STOPPED, IF IT'S
STILL GOING ON?
>> ITS HE AN INTERESTING
QUESTION AM WE -- GET A
PRECISE ANSWER TO IT.
THE LATEST DOCUMENTS
INDICATE IT WAS STILL ACTIVE
IN 2012.
WHEN WE ASKED IF IT IS
ONGOING FOR IT STOPPED WE
GOT RESPONSES SIMILAR TO THE
ONE THAT YOU RED OUT THAT
CUSS MATTERS OF LAW AND HOW
ALL OF THIS WAS LEGAL, NOT
WHETHER OR NOT THIS ACTUALLY
STOPPED SO WHAT ARE THE
LEGAL CONSEQUENCES THERE,
WAS GCHQ ALLOWED TO DO THING
THAT PERHAPS THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT WOULDN'T DO OR
DOES THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
HAVE TO GET APPROVAL FROM
THE FISA COURT FOR ALL THIS.
>> IT'S A FASCINATING
QUESTION.
GCHQ IS UNDER FEWER LEGAL
CONSTRAINTS THAN THE NSA IS,
FROM THE SORT OF EQUIVALENT
PRIVACY LAWS WHICH AREN'T
REALLY EQUIVALENT BUT FOR
THE SAKE OF THIS DISCUSSION,
CLOSE ENOUGH.
ALL GCHQ ANALYSTS HAVE TO
HAVE IS A REASONABLE
SUSPICION, NOT EVEN
REASONABLE FROM A
PARTICULARLY LEGALLY BINDING
CONTEXT, THAT IT'S
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS ARE
GENUINE FROM OUT OF THIS
PROGRAM, IF THEY WANT TO
SEARCH FOR T THE PROTECTIONS
ARE THAT WHETHER OR NOT THEY
HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE THAT
THE ACCOUNT ASSOCIATED ARE
INSIDE OR OUTSIDE THE U.K.
BEYOND THAT, NOT REALLY A
LOT.
THE QUESTION THAT IS
OUTSTANDING THAT NSA
WOULDN'T ADDRESS IS WHAT, IF
THE LEVEL OF ACCESS IS TO
THIS DATABASE.
THEY DIDN'T DIRECTLY ADDRESS
THAT TO US WHEN WE WENT TO
THEM ON THATnd NSA TOOL LIKE
THE QUEARY TOOL ARE SET IN
THE DOCUMENTS TO WORK
ALONGSIDE THIS DATA SO THERE
IS SUS PINTIONS THAT REMAIN
OUTSTANDING AS TO THE DEGREE
TO WHICH NSA WAS ABLE TO
ACCESS THIS DATA.
>> ALL RIGHT, BOTH THE
STATEMENTS FROM THE NSA AND
YAHOO! ARE ON OUR WEB SITE,
SPENCER AKERMAN FROM THE
GUARDIAN, THANKS FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANKS FOR HANGVI ME
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, WITH
THE OSCARS THIS WEEKEND, WE LOOK
AT A FILM NOMINATED FOR BEST
DOCUMENTARY.
IT'S CENTERED IN MEDAN, THE
CAPITOL OF NORTHERN SUMATRA, IN
INDONESIA.
JEFF IS BACK WITH A CONVERSATION
HE RECORDED RECENTLY.
>> IT'S A HISTORIES THAT'S
LITTLE KNOWN IN THE U.S.,
THE SLAUGHTER OF MORE THAN A
MILLION PEOPLE IN INDONESIA
AFTER A MILITARY COUP IN
1965.
THE VICTIMS WERE COMMUNIST
AND THOSE LABELS AS SUCH
INCLUDING INTELLECTUALS,
ETHNIC CHINESE AND ANYONE
OPPOSED TO THE NEW REGIME.
THE PERPETRATORS WERE OFTEN
MEMBERS OF PARAMILITARY
GROUPS WHO CARRIED OUT THE
EXECUTIONS WITH THE A
PROFERL OF THE MILITARY
GOVERNMENT.
AND IN THE NEW DOCUMENTARY
THE AGO OF KILLING, IT IS
THEY, THE KILLERS WHO SPEAK
UP AND SHOW EXACTLY HOW THEY
DID THEIR WORK.
FILMMAKER JOSHUA OPPENHEIMER
JOINS US NOW, WELCOME TO
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THIS IS A GROUP OF MEN
WHO OPERATED OPENLY,
VIOLENTLY, THEY WERE
SELF-DESCRIBED GANGSTERS,
RIGHTS?
AND THEY MODEL THEMSELVES ON
MOVIE GANGSTERS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IN THE CITY OF MADON WHERE
WE MADE THIS FILM THEY
RECRUITED THE DILLERS FROM
THE RANKS OF GANGSTERS WITH
WHO WERE HANGING OUT IN
CINEMAS.
THEY ALL HAD A LOVE OF
HOLLYWOOD FILL MINGS.
AND WHEN I MET THEM NOT ONLY
WERE THEY-- THEY HAD NEVER
BEEN FORCED TO ADMIT IT WAS
WRONG BUT WHEN WE SUGGESTED
THEY DRAMATIZE IT THEY CHOSE
TO SUGGEST THAT THEY
DRAMATIZE IT IN THE STYLE OF
A HOLLYWOOD FILM.
>> Brown: SO YOU MADE WHAT
IS IN ESSENCE A FILM WITH
THEIR COOPERATION, I MEAN
THEY SAID HERE, LET US ACT
IT OUT FOR YOU.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
I STARTED THIS PROJECT IN
COULD LAKES WITH SURVIVORS.
AND WE WERE WORKING VERY
CLOSELY TO TRY AND DOCUMENT
THE HORROR THAT THEY HAD
EXPERIENCED AND WHAT IT'S
LIKE FOR THEM TO LIVE TODAY
WITH THE PERPETRATORS STILL
IN POWER.
BUT WHMY OUT
WHAT WE WERE DOING, THE ARMY
WARNED THEM, THREATENED THEM
NOT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
FILM.
THE SURVIVORS THEN SAID OKAY,
YOU CAN'T FILM US, TRY AND
FILM THE PERPETRATORS.
YOU MIGHT FIND OUT WHAT
HAPPENED TO USMENT WHEN I
APPROACHED THE PERPETRATORS,
THEY WERE BOASTFUL, EAGER TO
SHOW WHAT THEY HAD DONE.
EAGER TO TAKE ME TO THE
PLACES WHERE THEY KILLED AND
SHOW HOW THEY KILLED.
AND THEN STARTED TO SUGGEST
STYLIZATION, IMPROVEMENTS.
AND I REALIZED THAT IF WE
COULD LET THEM DO THAT WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO EXPOSE THE
WOL REGIME THAT THE KILLERS
HAD BUILT.
>> Brown: AND THE OBVIOUS
QUESTION IS HOW DID YOU GET
THEM TO TALK TO YOU.
BUT IT SOUNDS AS THOUGH IT
WASN'T A PROBLEM AT ALL.
>> THESE MEN HAVE NEVER BEEN
THEY'RE STILL IN POWER.
THVER BEEN FORCED
TO ADMIT WHAT THEY HAVE DONE
IS WRONG.
AND THEREFORE THEY'VE BEEN
ABLE TO CLING TO THE LIE
NAMELY THE VICTOR'S HISTORY
THAT THEY'VE TOLD EVER SINCE
1965, JUSTIFYING THEIR
ACTIONS.
AND IMPOSING THAT VERSION OF
THE EVENTS ON THEIR WHOLE
SOCIETY.
AND WHEN THEY MET ME, AN
AMERICAN, KNOWING THAT THE
UNITED STATES SUPPORTED,
PEPPED IN AND ULTED
ME-- ULTIMATELY HELPED TO
IGNORE AND DENY WHAT HAD
HAPPENED, THEY WERE OPEN,
IMMEDIATELY.
>> Brown: I WANT TO SHOW ONE
LITTLE CLIP HERE, AND IT IS
ONE OF THE MAIN CHARACTERS.
JUST FELL US A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT HIM BY WAY OF
INTRODUCING IT.
>> HE WAS, IN FARKTS THE 41s
PEFERP TRAITOR WHOM I
FILMED.
HE WAS MO BOASTFUL THAN
ANYONE ELSE BUT UNDERPINNING
IT WITH A SHAME, APA
TRAUMA.
AND I RECOGNIZED THAT THE
BOASTING AND GUILT ARE TWO
SIDES OF THE SAME COIN.
I LINGERED ON HIM.
AND HE'S THE ONE WHO STARTED
TO PROPOSE THESE EVER MORE
ELABORATE DRAM ATIZATION AM
AS IF HE-- ALMOST AS IF HE
WAS TRYING TO RUN AWAY FROM
WHAT HE KNOWS WAS WRONG
ABOUT WHAT HE DID.
>> LET TAK'SE A LOOK.
>> THAT'S ME, I'M WEARING A
PLAYED SHIRT, CAMOUFLAGE
PANTS, SADDLE SHOES.
SEE HOW ELITE I AM?
>> THAT IS WHAT YOU SHOULD
WEAR IN THE STUDIO SCENE.
>> CARLO --
>> AND FOR ITS KILLING SCENE,
JEANS.
>> JEAN.
>> I WORE JEANS FOR KILLING.
>> WHEN YOU KILL PEERJS YOU
SHOULD WEAR THICK PANTS,
LIKE THIS.
>> A CHECKERED PATTERN, THAT
WOULD BE GREAT, BUT SMALL
ONES.
>> AS THEY CASUALLY
GLEEFULLY BOAST, AS YOU SAY,
DESCRIBE THESE KINDS OF
HORROR STORIES, ONE WONDERS
WHAT YOU WERE FEELING?
>> WELL, I WAS ASTONISHED
AND HORRIFIED MUCH OF THE
TIME.
BUT I ALSO FORCED MYSELF NOT
TO MAKE THE LEAP FROM SAYING
THESE MEN HAVE DONE
SOMETHING MONTHS TRUSS TO
THESE MEN ARE MONDAY-- MONITORS.
AND I THINK SO MANY OF THE
STORIES WE TELL ARE FORCED
AN DIVIDING INTO GOOD BUYS
AND BAD GUISE, AND THESE
SEEM LIKE THEY DID BAD
THINGS SO THEY ARE GOOD BUYS
SO WE INTERPRET THEIR
BOASTING THAT THEY ARE
MONSTEROUS.
BUT WHAT IF THEY ARE NOT.
OUR TASK AS NONFICTION
PHYSICAL AM MAKERS IS TO SEE
WHAT IS REALLY THERE.
>> YOU HAD AN END NES YAN
CODIRECTOR, YOU WORK WITH
MANY INDONESIANS, THEY HAVE
GATHER, I IMAGINE, HAVE
CHOSE TONE REMAIN ANONYMOUS
OUT OF FEAR OF THEIR SAFETY.
WHAT HAS BEEN THE REACTION
TO THE FILL NUMBER
INDONESIA.
>> THE FILM HAS HELPED
CATALYZE A TRANSFORMATION ON
HOW INDONESIA TALKS ABOUT
ITS PAST.
ODE INDONESIANS ARE NOW ABLE
TO TALK ABOUT THE GENOCIDE
AS A GENOCIDE AND RELATE TO
THE MORAL CATASTROPHE OF THE
PRESENT-DAY REGIME BUILT BY
THE KILLERS, EVEN AS THE
INDONESIAN MEDIA ALSO HAS
TARTED 20 REPORT ON THE
GENOCIDE AS A
GENOCIDE-- GENOCIDE AND
INVESTIGATING IT.
ONCE THE FILL AM WAS
NOMINATED FOR AN ACADEMY
AWARD THE GOVERNMENT FINALLY
BROKE ITS SILENCE.
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE
PRESIDENT OF END NES YA
YES IT WAS A CRIMINAL ABOUT
HUMANITY BUT WE DON'T NEED A
FILM TO TELL US HOW TO DEAL
WITH IT, WE WILL DEAL WITH
IT IN OUR OWN TIME THAT IS
AN INADEQUATE RESPONSE BUT
IT IS A SEA CHANGE, BECAUSE
UNTIL NOW THE GOVERNMENT HAS
MAINTAINED THAT WHAT
HAPPENED IN 1965 WAS HEROIC.
FINALLY THEY'VE ADMITTED
THAT IT WAS WRONG.
THAT'S ENORMOUS.
AND NOW RECENTLY WE HELD A
SCREENING ON CAPITOL HILL
FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
AND THE DISCUSSION
WAS WHAT WE:WE DO ABOUT
THIS.
IF WE WANT TO HAVE A
CONSTRUCTIONIVE AND ETHICAL
RELATIONSHIP WIND NESIA
MOVING FORWARD, WE NEED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE CRIMES OF
THE PAST AND OUR COLLECTIVE
ROLE IN SUPPORTING,
PARTICIPATING IN AND
ULTIMATELY IGNORING THOSE
CRIMES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> THE ACT OF KILLING IS THE
NEW MILL AM-- FILM BY JOSHUA
OPPENHEIMER, THANK YOU SO
MUCH
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN FIND OUR
OTHER CONVERSATIONS WITH OSCAR
NOMINEES FOR BEST DOCUMENTARY
FEATURED ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
NEW LEADERS TOOK OVER IN
UKRAINE, WHILE PRO-RUSSIAN
GUNMEN TOOK CONTROL OF
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN CRIMEA
AND THE U.S. WARNED MOSCOW
AGAINST PROVOCATIVE ACTIONS
AIMED AT UKRAINE, AS THE RUSSIAN
MILITARY SENT WARPLANES
PATROLLING THE BORDER.
>> Woodruff: VICE WEEK CONTINUES
WITH OUR TAKE ON GLUTTONY: WHAT
DOES IT TAKE TO BE A COMPETITIVE
EATER?
PLUS, WE WISH HAPPY 25th
BIRTHDAY TO THE WORLD WIDE WEB.
A NEW PEW RESEARCH CENTER STUDY
EXPLORES HOW AMERICANS FEEL
ABOUT THE INTERNET AND ITS
EFFECT ON OUR LIVES.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, MILES O'BRIEN GOES
INSIDE FUKUSHIMA FOR A RARE LOOK
AT JAPAN'S TROUBLED NUCLEAR
PLANT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.